Blazor migration guidance 8.0 (#30671)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/migration/70-80.md

---

> ## Update .NET Core SDK version in `global.json`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Update the .NET SDK version in `global.json`
```

       .AddInteractiveServerComponents();
   ```

   Replace `MapBlazorHub` with `MapRazorComponents`, supplying the `App` component as the root component type, and a chained call to `AddInteractiveServerRenderMode`.
   
   Remove the following line:
  
   ```diff
   - app.MapBlazorHub();
   ```

   Replace it with the following:

   ```csharp
   app.MapRazorComponents<App>()
       .AddInteractiveServerRenderMode();
   ```

   Remove the endpoint mapping that falls back to the `_Host` page:
   
   ```diff
   - app.MapFallbackToPage("/_Host");
   ```

1. If the Blazor Server app wasn't prerendering content, you can continue to disable prerendering for the updated app. In the `App` component, change the value assigned to the `@rendermode` Razor directive attributes for the `HeadOutlet` and `Routes` components:

   ```diff
   - @rendermode="RenderMode.InteractiveServer"
   + @rendermode="new InteractiveServerRenderMode(prerender: false)"
   ```

   For more information, see <xref:blazor/components/render-modes?view=aspnetcore-8.0&preserve-view=true#prerendering>.

### Add Auto component rendering to a Blazor Server app

### Upgrade a hosted Blazor WebAssembly app

> ### Adopt .NET 8 features

Reviewer 2: For you folks to go SO in-depth on migrating other apps, and then just say "create a new app and copy the code over" for WebAssembly apps feels like a REAL cop-out. I hope that's not the final guidance.

Author: It's TBD. Let's not discuss it at this point because this is a WIP. I've only just started work here.

Author: I'll get back to you on it.

Author: BTW tho ... this has (almost) always been our guidance for Blazor due to the high degree of template churn. I did write it all out at .NET 5, and it was real ***murder***. It took days to write it all out, then it took several trips back into the guidance to fix problems and call out gotchas. We still didn't cover auth updates, as they were even more extensive and complex.

  
   ```diff
   - app.MapBlazorHub();
   ```

   ```csharp
   app.MapRazorComponents<App>()
       .AddInteractiveServerRenderMode();
   ```

   Remove the following line:
   
   ```diff
   - app.MapFallbackToPage("/_Host");
   ```

   Add [Antiforgery Middleware](xref:blazor/security/index#antiforgery-support) to the request processing pipeline after the call to `app.UseRouting`. If there are calls to `app.UseRouting` and `app.UseEndpoints`, the call to `app.UseAntiforgery` must go between them. A call to `app.UseAntiforgery` must be placed after calls to `app.UseAuthentication` and `app.UseAuthorization`.

   ```csharp
   app.UseAntiforgery();
   ```

1. If the Blazor Server app was configured to disable prerendering, you can continue to disable prerendering for the updated app. In the `App` component, change the value assigned to the `@rendermode` Razor directive attributes for the `HeadOutlet` and `Routes` components.

   Remove the following from the `HeadOutlet` and `Routes` components and replace them with the following `@rendermode` that disables prerendering:

   ```diff

>    - @rendermode="RenderMode.InteractiveServer"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - @rendermode="InteractiveServer"
```

### Convert a hosted Blazor WebAssembly app into a Blazor Web App

Blazor WebAssembly apps are supported in .NET 8 without any code changes. Use the following guidance to convert an ASP.NET Core hosted Blazor WebAssembly app into an equivalent .NET 8 Blazor Web App, which makes all of the [new .NET 8 features](xref:aspnetcore-8#blazor) available.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This section focuses on the minimal changes required to convert a .NET 7 ASP.NET Core hosted Blazor WebAssembly app into a .NET 8 Blazor Web App. To adopt all of the new Blazor Web App conventions, follow the guidance in the [Adopt Blazor Web App conventions](#adopt-blazor-web-app-conventions) section. 

1. Follow the guidance in the first three sections of this article:

   * [Update the .NET SDK version in `global.json`](#update-the-net-sdk-version-in-globaljson)
   * [Update the target framework](#update-the-target-framework)
   * [Update package references](#update-package-references)

   > [!IMPORTANT]
   > Using the preceding guidance, update the `Client`, `Server`, and `Shared` projects of the solution.

> 1. Move the file content from the `Client/wwwroot/index.html` file to a new `App` component file (`App.razor`) created at the root of the `Server` project.

Reviewer: Should we clarify here that they should also delete index.html? Or is that clear from "move the file content"?

Author: I'll say to delete it to make it clear.

1. Rename `App.razor` in the `Client` project to `Routes.razor`.

1. Add an entry to the `_Imports.razor` file to make shorthand render modes available to the app:

   ```razor
   @using static Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Web.RenderMode
   ```

1. Make a copy of the `_Imports.razor` file and add it to the `Server` project.

1. Make the following changes to the `App.razor` file:

   Replace the `<title>` tag with the `HeadOutlet` component. Start by removing the `<title>` tag: 

   ```diff
   - <title>...</title>
   ```

>    Add the `HeadOutlet` component to the `<head>` content with the interactive WebAssembly render mode and prerendering disabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Add the `HeadOutlet` component at the end of the `<head>` content with the interactive WebAssembly render mode and prerendering disabled:
```

>    ```razor
>    <HeadOutlet @rendermode="new InteractiveWebAssemblyRenderMode(prerender: false)" />
> 
>    Replace the following `div` tag with the `Routes` component using the interactive WebAssembly render mode and prerendering disabled:
>    
>    ```diff
>    - <div id="app">
>    -     ...
>    - </div>
>    ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
   ```razor
   <HeadOutlet @rendermode="new InteractiveWebAssemblyRenderMode(prerender: false)" />
   ```

   Replace the following `div` tag with the `Routes` component using the interactive WebAssembly render mode and prerendering disabled:
   
   ```diff
   - <div id="app">
   -     ...
   - </div>
   ```
````

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This section focuses on the minimal changes required to convert a .NET 7 ASP.NET Core hosted Blazor WebAssembly app into a .NET 8 Blazor Web App. To adopt all of the new Blazor Web App conventions, follow the guidance in the [Adopt Blazor Web App conventions](#adopt-blazor-web-app-conventions) section. 

1. Follow the guidance in the first three sections of this article:

   * [Update the .NET SDK version in `global.json`](#update-the-net-sdk-version-in-globaljson)
   * [Update the target framework](#update-the-target-framework)
   * [Update package references](#update-package-references)

   > [!IMPORTANT]
   > Using the preceding guidance, update the `Client`, `Server`, and `Shared` projects of the solution.

1. Move the file content from the `Client/wwwroot/index.html` file to a new `App` component file (`App.razor`) created at the root of the `Server` project. After you move the file's contents, delete the `index.html` file.

> 1. Rename `App.razor` in the `Client` project to `Routes.razor`.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Rename `App.razor` in the `Client` project to `Routes.razor`.

1. In `Routes.razor`, update the value of the `AppAssembly` attribute to `typeof(Program).Assembly`.

```

   ```diff
   - <script src="_framework/blazor.webassembly.js"></script>
   + <script src="_framework/blazor.web.js"></script>
   ```

1. Remove the following lines from `Client/Program.cs`:

   ```diff
   - builder.RootComponents.Add<App>("#app");
   - builder.RootComponents.Add<HeadOutlet>("head::after");
   ```
   
1. Update `Server/Program.cs`:

   Add Razor component and interactive WebAssembly component services to the project. Call `AddRazorComponents` with a chained call to `AddInteractiveWebAssemblyComponents`:

   ```csharp
   builder.Services.AddRazorComponents()
       .AddInteractiveWebAssemblyComponents();
   ```

   Add [Antiforgery Middleware](xref:blazor/security/index#antiforgery-support) to the request processing pipeline immediately after the call to `app.UseRouting`. If there are calls to `app.UseRouting` and `app.UseEndpoints`, the call to `app.UseAntiforgery` must go between them. Calls to `app.UseAntiforgery` must be placed after calls to `app.UseAuthentication` and `app.UseAuthorization`.

   ```csharp
   app.UseAntiforgery();
   ```

   Remove the following line:
   
   ```diff
   - app.UseBlazorFrameworkFiles();
   ```

>    Remove the following line and replace it with a call to `MapRazorComponents`, supplying the `App` component as the root component type, and add a chained call to `AddInteractiveWebAssemblyRenderMode`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Remove the following line and replace it with a call to `MapRazorComponents`, supplying the `App` component as the root component type, and add chained calls to `AddInteractiveWebAssemblyRenderMode` and `AddAdditionalAssemblies`:
```

   
   ```diff
   - app.MapFallbackToFile("index.html");
   ```

>    ```csharp
>    app.MapRazorComponents<App>()
>        .AddInteractiveWebAssemblyRenderMode();
>    ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```csharp
   app.MapRazorComponents<App>()
       .AddInteractiveWebAssemblyRenderMode()
       .AddAdditionalAssemblies(typeof(Counter).Assembly);
   ```
```

Author: Didn't they go with something like ...

```
.AddAdditionalAssemblies(typeof(BlazorServer80.Client._Imports).Assembly);
```

... i.e., not the `Counter` component.

Author: https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/main/src/ProjectTemplates/Web.ProjectTemplates/content/BlazorWeb-CSharp/BlazorWeb-CSharp/Program.cs#L118

Author: I see the check prior to that if sample components are added that they do go with the `Counter` component. However ... if the dev then deletes this because this is a project update, they'll hose this line if they go with the `Counter` component, so it seems safer to go with the `_Imports` file.

Reviewer: Yeah, it just needs to be some type that lives in the client project. It could be the client Program class, and component, etc.

## Blazor

<!-- UPDATE 8.0 Add API cross-links after RTM -->

The following migration scenarios are covered:

> * [Update a Blazor Server app](#update-a-blazor-server-app)

Reviewer: The minimum you need to do to update a Blazor Server app is just update the TFM and the packages, which is covered by the general ASP.NET Core migration guidance above. This section is really about taking a Blazor Server app and turning it into a Blazor Web App, so I think it should have the corresponding heading, although I prefer "update" to "convert".

```suggestion
* [Convert a Blazor Server app into a Blazor Web App](#convert-a-blazor-server-app-into-a-blazor-web-app)
```

> * [Add interactive WebAssembly components to a Blazor Server app](#add-interactive-webassembly-components-to-a-blazor-server-app)

Reviewer: This isn't really a migration scenario, so I think we should move this content elsewhere. I think what we should do is generalize the [Integrate components](https://learn.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/blazor/components/integration) doc a bit and move this content there. Right now the Integrate component doc focuses specifically on adding components to an MVC or Razor Pages app, but we also need to document how to add Blazor support to _any_ ASP.NET Core app, even an [API project](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/issues/51384#issuecomment-1766247037) that currently has no UI. This content should include how to setup a client project. The easiest way to do this might be to use the Blazor WebAssembly Standalone project template and then modify it as needed.

> * [Convert a Blazor Server app into a Blazor Web App](#convert-a-blazor-server-app-into-a-blazor-web-app)

Reviewer: Let's merge this alternative approach to migration with the previous Blazor Server section.

```suggestion
```

> * [Update a Blazor WebAssembly app](#update-a-blazor-webassembly-app)
> * [Update a hosted Blazor WebAssembly app](#update-a-hosted-blazor-webassembly-app)

Reviewer: I think these two sections can be merged and the heading should follow the same pattern as the Blazor Server one:

```suggestion
* [Convert a hosted Blazor WebAssembly app into a Blazor Web App](#convert-a-hosted-blazor-webassembly-app-into-a-blazor-web-app)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Adopt Blazor Web App conventions](#adopt-blazor-web-app-conventions)

```

> For scenarios not covered or to convert a .NET 6 or earlier app into a Blazor Web App, we recommend the following process:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To adopt all of the new Blazor Web App conventions, we recommend the following process:
```

* Create a new app from the Blazor Web App project template. For more information, see <xref:blazor/tooling>.
* Move the your app's components and code to the new Blazor Web App app, making modifications to adopt new features.
* Update the layout and styles of the Blazor Web App.

New .NET 8 features are covered in <xref:aspnetcore-8#blazor>. When updating an app from .NET 6 or earlier, see the migration and release notes (*What's new* articles) for intervening releases.

> ### Update a Blazor Server app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Convert a Blazor Server app into a Blazor Web App
```

> Blazor Server apps are supported in .NET 8. Use the following guidance to update a Blazor Server app to .NET 8, which makes all of the [new .NET 8 features](xref:aspnetcore-8#blazor) available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blazor Server apps are supported in .NET 8 without any required code changes. Use the following guidance to convert a Blazor Server app into an equivalent .NET 8 Blazor Web App, which makes all of the [new .NET 8 features](xref:aspnetcore-8#blazor) available.
```

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > This section focuses on the minimal changes required to update a .NET 7 Blazor Server app to .NET 8. The guidance in this section doesn't cover adoption of the Blazor Web App project template folder and file layout structure, nor does it adhere to new layout, error UI, navigation menu, stylesheet, and other changes introduced for Blazor Web Apps. To adopt all of the introduced changes for .NET 8, convert the Blazor Server app into a Blazor Web App by following the guidance in the [Convert a Blazor Server app into a Blazor Web App](#convert-a-blazor-server-app-into-a-blazor-web-app) section. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This section focuses on the minimal changes required to convert a .NET 7 Blazor Server app into a .NET 8 Blazor Web App. To adopt all of the new Blazor Web App conventions following the guidance in the [Adopt Blazor Web App conventions](#adopt-blazor-web-app-conventions) section. 
```

1. Follow the guidance in the first three sections of this article:

>    * [Update .NET Core SDK version in `global.json`](#update-net-core-sdk-version-in-globaljson)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * [Update .NET SDK version in `global.json`](#update-net-core-sdk-version-in-globaljson)
```

   * [Update the target framework](#update-the-target-framework)
   * [Update package references](#update-package-references)

1. Move the contents of the `App` component (`App.razor`) to a new `Routes` component file (`Routes.razor`) added to the project's root folder. Leave the empty `App.razor` file in the app in the project's root folder.

1. Add an entry to the `_Imports.razor` file to make shorthand render modes available to the app:

   ```razor
   @using static Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Web.RenderMode
   ```

1. Move the content in the `_Host` page (`Pages/_Host.cshtml`) to the empty `App.razor` file. Proceed to make the following changes to the `App` component.

   > [!NOTE]

>    > In the following example, the project's namespace is `Net8BlazorServer`. Adjust the namespace to match your project.

Reviewer: Replace `Net8BlazorServer` with `Net7BlazorServer` to clarify that the app is initially a .NET 7 app.

Author: Perhaps, we should remove the number. It seems confusing either way.

Reviewer: Sure, how about `BlazorServerApp`?

   Remove the following lines from the top of the file:

   ```diff
   - @page "/"
   - @using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Web
   - @namespace Net8BlazorServer.Pages
   - @addTagHelper *, Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.TagHelpers
   ```
   
   Replace the preceding lines with the following:

   ```razor
   @inject IHostEnvironment Env
   ```

>    Remove the tilde (`~`) from the `href` of the `<base>` tag:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Remove the tilde (`~`) from the `href` of the `<base>` tag and replace with the base path for your app:
```

   ```diff
   - <base href="~/" />
   + <base href="/" />
   ```

   Remove the Component Tag Helper for the `HeadOutlet` component:

   ```diff
   - <component type="typeof(HeadOutlet)" render-mode="ServerPrerendered" />
   ```

   Replace the preceding line's tag helper with the `HeadOutlet` component:

   ```razor

>    <HeadOutlet @rendermode="RenderMode.InteractiveServer" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   <HeadOutlet @rendermode="InteractiveServer" />
```

>    Remove the Component Tag Helper for the `HeadOutlet` component:
> 
>    ```diff
>    - <component type="typeof(HeadOutlet)" render-mode="ServerPrerendered" />
>    ```
> 
>    Replace the preceding line's tag helper with the `HeadOutlet` component:
> 
>    ```razor
>    <HeadOutlet @rendermode="RenderMode.InteractiveServer" />

Reviewer: Can we collapse this into a single step with the corresponding diff? Also, `RenderMode.InteractiveServer` can be simplified to just `InteractiveServer`.

````suggestion
   Remove the Component Tag Helper for the `HeadOutlet` component:

   ```diff
   - <component type="typeof(HeadOutlet)" render-mode="ServerPrerendered" />
   + <HeadOutlet @rendermode="InteractiveServer" />
   ```
````

Author: I'll do it, but I don't recommend it ... the dev loses the usefulness of the **Copy** button.

Author: ... also ...

```
@rendermode="InteractiveServer"
```

... I thought that would be for RTM ... you're saying it works now under RC2?

Reviewer: The simplified syntax is enabled by the `using static` for `RenderMode`, which you already tell the user to add in an earlier step. The Blazor Web App template will have this by default for the final .NET 8 release, but you can always add it yourself.

Author: Oh ... wait ... sorry ... it's VERY late here. I think you mean because we are going to have the ...

```razor
@using static Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.Web.RenderMode
```

... here that we're good to go here. A template-based app wouldn't have it.

Ok ... gotcha.

I think the thing that I left out was adding it to the `.Client` project with a note to myself to remove that later. I'll take care of it.

>    <HeadOutlet @rendermode="RenderMode.InteractiveServer" />

Author: ```suggestion
   <HeadOutlet @rendermode="InteractiveServer" />
```

   ```

   Remove the Component Tag Helper for the `App` component:

   ```diff
   - <component type="typeof(App)" render-mode="ServerPrerendered" />
   ```

   Replace the preceding line's tag helper with the `Routes` component:

   ```razor

>    <Routes @rendermode="RenderMode.InteractiveServer" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   <Routes @rendermode="InteractiveServer" />
```

>    <Routes @rendermode="RenderMode.InteractiveServer" />

Author: ```suggestion
   <Routes @rendermode="InteractiveServer" />
```

>    Remove the Component Tag Helper for the `App` component:
> 
>    ```diff
>    - <component type="typeof(App)" render-mode="ServerPrerendered" />
>    ```
> 
>    Replace the preceding line's tag helper with the `Routes` component:
> 
>    ```razor
>    <Routes @rendermode="RenderMode.InteractiveServer" />
>    ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
   Replace the Component Tag Helper for the `App` component with the `App` component:

   ```diff
   - <component type="typeof(App)" render-mode="ServerPrerendered" />
   + <Routes @rendermode="InteractiveServer" />
   ```
````

Author: Ditto ... and btw, this is a standard Blazor docs convention to make the **Copy** button work well. I'd have had the doc engineers make the **Copy** button smarter, but it really just copies everything, and the dev has to back out the deletion lines and the "+ " from the fronts of the addition lines. I recommend we go with my approach, but I'll change it here (and everywhere across the Blazor docs) if you wish.

Reviewer: Ah, I should've known there was a good reason you structured things this way :smile:. My concern in this case is this pattern makes the doc much longer. Did we get customer complaints about the copy button not working previously when using the diff syntax?

Author: ***I complain!*** 😆 ... and I'd be happy to open an issue for them or ask the team to forward it, but they ignore me constantly.

I agree on the length, but it's a PITA to use DIFFs the way they're proposing ... they way they do. Still tho ... if you want me to change them all, no problem, of course. However, it's a standard Blazor docs convention, so it's done this way *everywhere* to save our readers a lot of time and frustration. It will need to be changed in many docs. I'll do that tho on a follow-up issue tho. We need to get out of this one soon to free it up for the other doc authors.

Reviewer: 😆 Fair enough. Maybe we should just stick with the existing convention then.

   -     An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded.
   - </environment>
   - <environment include="Development">
   -     An unhandled exception has occurred. See browser dev tools for details.
   - </environment>
   ```

   Replace the preceding tag helpers with the following lines:

   ```razor
   @if (Env.IsDevelopment())
   {
       <text>
           An unhandled exception has occurred. See browser dev tools for details.
       </text>
   }
   else
   {
       <text>
           An error has occurred. This app may no longer respond until reloaded.
       </text>
   }
   ```

   Change the Blazor script from `blazor.server.js` to `blazor.web.js`:

   ```diff
   - <script src="_framework/blazor.server.js"></script>
   + <script src="_framework/blazor.web.js"></script>
   ```

1. Delete the `Pages/_Host.cshtml` file.

1. Update `Program.cs`:

   > [!NOTE]
   > In the following example, the project's namespace is `Net8BlazorServer`. Adjust the namespace to match your project.

   Add a `using` statement to the top of the file for the project's namespace:

   ```csharp
   using Net8BlazorServer;
   ```
  

>    Replace `AddServerSideBlazor` with `AddRazorComponents` and a chained call to `AddInteractiveServerComponents`.
>    
>    Remove the following line:
> 
>    ```diff
>    - builder.Services.AddServerSideBlazor();
>    ```
> 
>    Replace the line with the following lines:
> 
>    ```csharp
>    builder.Services.AddRazorComponents()
>        .AddInteractiveServerComponents();
>    ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
   Replace `AddServerSideBlazor` with `AddRazorComponents` and a chained call to `AddInteractiveServerComponents`:
   
   ```diff
   - builder.Services.AddServerSideBlazor();
   + builder.Services.AddRazorComponents()
   +     .AddInteractiveServerComponents();
   ```
````

>    Replace `MapBlazorHub` with `MapRazorComponents`, supplying the `App` component as the root component type, and add a chained call to `AddInteractiveServerRenderMode`.
>    
>    Remove the following line:
>   
>    ```diff
>    - app.MapBlazorHub();
>    ```
> 
>    Replace the line with the following lines:
> 
>    ```csharp
>    app.MapRazorComponents<App>()
>        .AddInteractiveServerRenderMode();
>    ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
   Replace `MapBlazorHub` with `MapRazorComponents`, supplying the `App` component as the root component type, and add a chained call to `AddInteractiveServerRenderMode`:
  
   ```diff
   - app.MapBlazorHub();
   +     app.MapRazorComponents<App>()
   +         .AddInteractiveServerRenderMode();
   ```
````

   Remove the following line:
   
   ```diff
   - app.MapFallbackToPage("/_Host");
   ```

   Add [Antiforgery Middleware](xref:blazor/security/index#antiforgery-support) to the request processing pipeline immediately after the call to `app.UseRouting`. If there are calls to `app.UseRouting` and `app.UseEndpoints`, the call to `app.UseAntiforgery` must go between them. Calls to `app.UseAntiforgery` must be placed after calls to `app.UseAuthentication` and `app.UseAuthorization`.

   ```csharp
   app.UseAntiforgery();
   ```

1. If the Blazor Server app was configured to disable prerendering, you can continue to disable prerendering for the updated app. In the `App` component, change the value assigned to the `@rendermode` Razor directive attributes for the `HeadOutlet` and `Routes` components.

>    Remove the following from the `HeadOutlet` and `Routes` components:
> 
>    ```diff
>    - @rendermode="RenderMode.InteractiveServer"
>    ```
> 
>    Replace with the following:
> 
>    ```razor
>    @rendermode="new InteractiveServerRenderMode(prerender: false)"
>    ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```razor
   @rendermode="new InteractiveServerRenderMode(prerender: false)"
   ```
```

   For more information, see <xref:blazor/components/render-modes?view=aspnetcore-8.0&preserve-view=true#prerendering>.

> ### Add interactive WebAssembly components to a Blazor Server app

Reviewer: As mentioned above, I'd like to move this content to the Integrate components topic.

   ```razor
   @attribute [RenderModeInteractiveWebAssembly]
   ```

   <!-- UPDATE 8.0 To adopt simplified naming at RTM -->

   ```razor
   @rendermode RenderMode.InteractiveWebAssembly
   ```

   Such components only render on the client after the Blazor bundle has been downloaded and the Blazor runtime activates. Keep in mind that component code is ***not*** private using the interactive WebAssembly render mode.

   For additional information on applying render modes to components, see <xref:blazor/components/render-modes>.

1. Run the solution from the ***Blazor Server*** project:

   For Visual Studio, confirm that the Blazor Server project is selected in **Solution Explorer** when running the app.
   
   If using the .NET CLI, run the project from the Blazor Server project's folder.

   For the `Counter` component of the `.Client` project, navigate to `/counter`.

   If you added the `Counter2` component, which is strictly configured for interactive server rendering, navigate to `/counter-2`.

> ### Convert a Blazor Server app into a Blazor Web App
> 
> To adopt all of the changes that were made to the project templates for this release, we recommend the following process:
> 
> * Create a new project from the Blazor Web App project template. For more information, see <xref:blazor/tooling>.
> * Move the app's components and code to the new app, making modifications to adopt new features.
> * Update the layout and styles of the Blazor Web App to match the Blazor Server app.
> 
> New .NET 8 features are covered in <xref:aspnetcore-8#blazor>. When updating an app from .NET 6 or earlier, see the migration and release notes (*What's new* articles) for intervening releases.
> 

Reviewer: I'm proposing this is covered in the new Adopt Blazor Web App conventions section.

```suggestion
```

> ### Convert a Blazor Server app into a Blazor Web App
> 
> To adopt all of the changes that were made to the project templates for this release, we recommend the following process:
> 
> * Create a new project from the Blazor Web App project template. For more information, see <xref:blazor/tooling>.
> * Move the app's components and code to the new app, making modifications to adopt new features.
> * Update the layout and styles of the Blazor Web App to match the Blazor Server app.
> 
> New .NET 8 features are covered in <xref:aspnetcore-8#blazor>. When updating an app from .NET 6 or earlier, see the migration and release notes (*What's new* articles) for intervening releases.
> 
> ### Update a Blazor WebAssembly app
> 
> Follow the guidance in the first three sections of this article:
> 
> * [Update .NET Core SDK version in global.json](#update-net-core-sdk-version-in-globaljson)
> * [Update the target framework](#update-the-target-framework)
> * [Update package references](#update-package-references)
> 
> Adopt [.NET 8 features](xref:aspnetcore-8#blazor). When updating an app from .NET 6 or earlier, see the migration and release notes (*What's new* articles) for intervening releases.
> 

Reviewer: I'm proposing this is covered in the new Adopt Blazor Web App conventions section.

```suggestion
```

> ### Update a hosted Blazor WebAssembly app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Convert a hosted Blazor WebAssembly app into a Blazor Web App
```

> To upgrade an existing ASP.NET Core hosted Blazor WebAssembly app to .NET 8:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blazor WebAssembly apps are supported in .NET 8 without any required code changes. Use the following guidance to convert an ASP.NET Core hosted Blazor WebAssembly app into an equivalent .NET 8 Blazor Web App, which makes all of the [new .NET 8 features](xref:aspnetcore-8#blazor) available.

> [!IMPORTANT]

> This section focuses on the minimal changes required to convert a .NET 7 ASP.NET Core hosted Blazor WebAssembly app into a .NET 8 Blazor Web App. To adopt all of the new Blazor Web App conventions, follow the guidance in the [Adopt Blazor Web App conventions](#adopt-blazor-web-app-conventions) section. 
```

1. Follow the guidance in the first three sections of this article:

>    * [Update .NET Core SDK version in global.json](#update-net-core-sdk-version-in-globaljson)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * [Update the .NET SDK version in global.json](#update-net-core-sdk-version-in-globaljson)
```

   * [Update the target framework](#update-the-target-framework)
   * [Update package references](#update-package-references)

   > [!IMPORTANT]
   > Using the preceding guidance, update the `Client`, `Server`, and `Shared` projects of the solution.

>    For information on .NET 8 features, see <xref:aspnetcore-8#blazor>. When updating an app from .NET 6 or earlier, see the migration and release notes (*What's new* articles) for intervening releases.
> 

Reviewer: I think this is covered by the note above.

```suggestion
```

> 1. Move the file content from the `Client/wwwroot/index.html` file to a new `Host` component file (`Host.razor`) created at the root of the `Client` project.

Reviewer: Sorry, my Net8BlazorWebAssembly app is a bit outdated. We should follow the Blazor Web App patterns here of App.razor and Routes.razor. App.razor stays in the server project. Routes.razor goes in the client project.

```suggestion
1. Move the file content from the `Client/wwwroot/index.html` file to a new `App` component file (`App.razor`) created at the root of the `Server` project.
```

> 1. Make the following changes to the `Host.razor` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Make the following changes to the `App.razor` file:
```

   Replace the `<title>` tag with the `HeadOutlet` component. Start by removing the `<title>` tag: 

   ```diff
   - <title>...</title>
   ```

   Add the `HeadOutlet` component to the `<head>` content with the interactive WebAssembly render mode:

   <!-- UPDATE 8.0 Value will simplify at RTM -->

   ```razor

>    <HeadOutlet @rendermode="RenderMode.InteractiveWebAssembly" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   <HeadOutlet @rendermode="InteractiveWebAssembly" />
```

>    Add the `HeadOutlet` component to the `<head>` content with the interactive WebAssembly render mode:
> 
>    <!-- UPDATE 8.0 Value will simplify at RTM -->
> 
>    ```razor
>    <HeadOutlet @rendermode="RenderMode.InteractiveWebAssembly" />
>    ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Add the `HeadOutlet` component to the `<head>` content with the interactive WebAssembly render mode and prerendering disabled:

   ```razor
   <HeadOutlet @rendermode="new InteractiveServerRenderMode(prerender: false)" />
   ```
```

> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion

   Replace the app `div` tag in `App.razor` with the `Routes` component. Start by removing the `div` tag:
   
   ```diff
   - <div id="app">
   -     ...
   - </div>
   ```

   Add the `Routes` component with the interactive WebAssembly render mode and prerendering disabled:

   ```razor
   <Routes @rendermode="new InteractiveWebAssemblyRenderMode(prerender: false)"
   ``` 
````

   Update the `blazor.webassembly.js` script to `blazor.web.js`:

   ```diff
   - <script src="_framework/blazor.webassembly.js"></script>
   + <script src="_framework/blazor.web.js"></script>
   ```

> 1. Remove the following line from `Client/Program.cs`:
> 
>    ```diff
>    - builder.RootComponents.Add<HeadOutlet>("head::after");
>    ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
1. Remove the following lines from `Client/Program.cs`:

   ```diff
   - builder.RootComponents.Add<App>("#app");
   - builder.RootComponents.Add<HeadOutlet>("head::after");
   ```
````

   
1. Update `Server/Program.cs`:

   Add a `using` statement for the `Host` component at the top of the file.

   > [!NOTE]

>    > In the following example, the project's namespace is `Net8BlazorWebAssembly.Client`. Adjust the namespace to match your project.

Reviewer: Change `Net8BlazorWebAssembly` to `BlazorWebAssemblyApp` throughout.

```suggestion
   > In the following example, the project's namespace is `BlazorWebAssemblyApp.Client`. Adjust the namespace to match your project.
```

>    Add a `using` statement for the `Host` component at the top of the file.
> 
>    > [!NOTE]
>    > In the following example, the project's namespace is `Net8BlazorWebAssembly.Client`. Adjust the namespace to match your project.
> 
>    ```csharp
>    using Host = Net8BlazorWebAssembly.Client.Host;
>    ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

   Add Razor component and interactive WebAssembly component services to the project. Call `AddRazorComponents` with a chained call to `AddInteractiveWebAssemblyComponents`:

   ```csharp
   builder.Services.AddRazorComponents()
       .AddInteractiveWebAssemblyComponents();
   ```

   Add [Antiforgery Middleware](xref:blazor/security/index#antiforgery-support) to the request processing pipeline immediately after the call to `app.UseRouting`. If there are calls to `app.UseRouting` and `app.UseEndpoints`, the call to `app.UseAntiforgery` must go between them. Calls to `app.UseAntiforgery` must be placed after calls to `app.UseAuthentication` and `app.UseAuthorization`.

   ```csharp
   app.UseAntiforgery();
   ```

   Remove the following line:
   
   ```diff
   - app.UseBlazorFrameworkFiles();
   ```

   Remove the following line:
   
   ```diff
   - app.MapFallbackToFile("index.html");
   ```
     

>    Replace the preceding line with with a call to `MapRazorComponents`, supplying the `Host` component as the root component type, and add a chained call to `AddInteractiveWebAssemblyRenderMode`:
>    
>    ```csharp
>    app.MapRazorComponents<Host>()
>        .AddInteractiveWebAssemblyRenderMode();
>    ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Replace the preceding line with a call to `MapRazorComponents`, supplying the `App` component as the root component type, and add a chained call to `AddInteractiveWebAssemblyRenderMode`:
   
   ```csharp
   app.MapRazorComponents<App>()
       .AddInteractiveWebAssemblyRenderMode();
   ```
```

> 
> 1. To enable prerendering:
> 
>    Update the app's Razor components to support prerendering from the server.
> 
>    <!-- What's in the sample is highly template-specific (the weather data example) 
>         and won't match what they need to do generally. What do we tell devs
>         for this step? -->
> 
>    In the `Client/Host.razor` file, remove the following markup:
>    
>    ```diff
>    - <div id="app">
>    -     <svg class="loading-progress">
>    -         <circle r="40%" cx="50%" cy="50%" />
>    -         <circle r="40%" cx="50%" cy="50%" />
>    -     </svg>
>    -     <div class="loading-progress-text"></div>
>    - </div>
>    ```
>      
>    Replace the preceding markup with the following line:
>      
>    ```razor
>    <App @rendermode="RenderMode.WebAssembly" />
>    ```

Reviewer: Let's not document here how to enable prerendering. It involves a fair amount of complexity because the app's components may not be designed to run from the server. Instead, we should guide users to disable prerendering at least initially when converting Blazor WebAssembly apps.

```suggestion
```
